Homework #: 02
Student Name: Minh Pham
EID: mlp2279
CS login: minhpham
Email address: minh.pham@utexas.edu
Unique Number: 52996

1. The difference between user threads and kernel threads are:
* Each kernel thread corresponds to a Thread Control Block in the kernel.
TBC are not created for user threads. Instead multiple user threads
share a PCB.
* The O/S schedules kernel threads. User thread scheduling is left to
the user.
* The O/S handles context switching for kernel threads, but not for user
threads.
A comparison between user threads and kernel threads:
* Context switches are less expensive for user threads than for kernel
threads
* Kernel threads can block, but user threads cannot.
* In practice, it is difficult to make user threads efficient.

2.
* Re-entrant code are code that can be safely interrupted.
* When an interrupt occurs as the code is running, and then returns, the
re-entrant code behaves as if the interrupt never occurred. Code that is
non-re-entrant, on the other hand, may behave differently, give a
different result, or crash.
* There are many reasons why re-entrancy is important in multi-threaded
code, but a big one is that it eliminates unnecessary (and dangerous)
dependencies in the code. A non-re-entrant piece of code will depend on
other codes executing in a certain order, something which is usually not
guaranteed in a multi-threaded environment.

3.
* Code: see threading.c and Makefile
* Output:
3: 1
3: 2
3: 3
3: 4
3: 5
3: 6
3: 7
3: 8
3: 9
3: 10
2: 1
2: 2
2: 3
2: 4
2: 5
2: 6
2: 7
2: 8
2: 9
2: 10
1: 1
1: 2
1: 3
1: 4
1: 5
1: 6
1: 7
1: 8
1: 9
1: 10
I am DONE!
* The results are consistent across runs. I played around with the code some,
and it appears the result depends on the order in which the threads were
created (but not the order in which they are joined). Threads which are
created first prints its result out last. I do not know why this is the case,
but I have two hypotheses:
** The order in which the threads are executed are Operating System or
Hardware dependent, and this result may be different on another machine.
** Threads are executed in LIFO order, like a stack, with new threads being
given the highest priority.

4.
* The output has to be i = 0. The fork() creates 2 processes: parent and
child. Both will modify the global variable i. We do not know which will
be executed first. However, the parent wait for the child to terminate
before printing the value of i. Therefore, we know that by the time the
print statement gets executed, i has been incremented once and
decremented once. Its value, therefore, is 0.
* Since it does not matter whether we increment or decrement first, as
long as both operations finish, the value of i will be 0 each time this
program is run.

5.
* The output, in this case, is very likely to be 0. The reason is as
explained above: i is incremented and decremented, and it doesn't matter
which operation completes first as long as both finish.
* However, there is a small chance it may end up to be either 1 or -1.
The reason is that the statements i = i - 1, and i = i + 1 are not
atomic, and each consists of at least a LOAD, an ALU operation, and a
STORE.
** Suppose, for example, that thread1 LOADs i (0) and then gets
swapped out. Now thread2 LOADs i (0), ADD 1, STORE i (now 1), and
terminate. thread1 now comes back, SUBTRACT 1 (i is still 0 here), and
STORE i (now -1).
* A clean way to force the program to execute the same way each time is
to wrap the each of the statements i = i - 1 and i = i + 1 in a mutex
lock. Then thread1 and thread2 cannot operate on its own disjointed copy
of i and then overwrite the global value. We ensure that i is operated
on by 1 thread at a time , in which case the order of execution doesn't
matter, and i will come out to be 0 every time.
